# WavePAM
WavePAM: Wavelet-Driven Robust Time Series Anomaly Detection via Multi-Scale Transient Perception and Dynamic Memory
Multivariate time series anomaly detection for industrial sensor data plays a crucial role in various application areas. Recent methods  have made advances in capturing long-range temporal dependencies. However, existing multi-scale methods suffer from information redundancy and struggle to capture transient anomalies. Meanwhile, frequency-domain approaches inadequately model variable dependencies while sacrificing temporal precision. We propose Wavelet-Driven Robust Time Series Anomaly Detection via Multi-Scale Transient Perception and Dynamic Memory (WavePAM) inspired by applications of wavelet multiresolution analysis in signal processing. Specifically, WavePAM refines intra-variable feature representations via low-frequency guided cross attention and enhances sensitivity to subtle anomalies in multi-scale analysis by encoding the temporal variations of the signal. Simultaneously, we design a hierarchical variable attention mechanism in the frequency domain to capture inter-variable correlations. Additionally, to realize the dynamic memory, we propose a learnable wavelet module that adaptively optimizes the orthogonal basis functions to enhance the distinguishability of normal and anomalous patterns within the time-frequency domain. This dual-domain collaborative mechanism significantly enhances the model's capability to capture complex temporal variations and diverse anomalies. Extensive experiments on five benchmarks (SMD, PSM, SWAT, MSL, SMAP) demonstrate that WavePAM outperforms ten state-of-the-art baselines in F1-score.

Currently, this repository contains the model component files (defining the model composition).

The complete codebase, including training scripts，pre-trained weights and inference pipelines, will be open-sourced upon the publication of the paper. Stay tuned!

